Johannesburg - Treverton College in the Midlands has challenged schools to contribute to conservation. Kai Broom and Jarred van Alphen, two matric students at Treverton College, recently completed the Rhino Peak Challenge in fourth and fifth position at 3:15:00 while in Grade 11. The driving force behind their grit and determination is a cause that is close to both of their hearts: the continuation of conservation in the Drakensberg mountains. Both keen adventure enthusiasts, Kai and Jarred have many incredible feats beneath their young belts, having recently completed the Drakensberg Grand Traverse in 12 days. Having raised close to R50 000 in donations for the various conservation initiatives associated with the Rhino Peak Challenge, Kai and Jarred are not yet done with this particular challenge. They have their eyes set on a greater cause, rallying other high school students to pick up the bar and rise to the cause of conservation by applying to be ambassadors in the Rhino Peak Challenge 2023. Kai and Jarred are keen to see other high school teams on the trail next year, contributing to this great cause. **Situated on a unique 270-hectare campus in the heart of the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands, Treverton College is a Christian boarding school catering for boys and girls from Grades 000 to 12. An independent private school, Treverton is in membership with the Independent Schools Association of Southern Africa. Treverton provides an educational environment like no other and is dedicated to giving young adults a head start in life which is relevant and appropriate to today’s fast-moving, ever-changing world. Come and visit our beautiful campus and experience all that Treverton offers! For further information please visit www.treverton.co.za. Help Mi School turn the spotlight on all things education Dear readers. The Saturday Star has always been a family newspaper. And a big part of our community are our children. This week we have launched a very special page inside the paper which we have called Mi School, where we’d like to shine a light on all things education. We believe that we have the perfect platform to tell the stories of the most important people of all – our children. It is time our schools got the same kind of attention as Eskom and the Budget, or at least as much as Hollywood and the English Premier League. Mi School is a weekly news section about your school, from the classroom to the changeroom, and even the teachers’ common room. Help us help them (and their teachers) get the recognition they so richly deserve through Mi School. If you would like to be part of this initiative and contribute news to it, or find out how to advertise in it, write to mischool@inl.co.za. Enjoy! The Saturday Star