Johannesburg - How do we do better in matric when we are conditioned to keep vibrating at lower frequencies? Lower standards of achievement are a psychological ceiling, a wall, an unstoppable force meeting an immovable mindset, set for failure. The stumbling education system is a war zone; 1. Matric pupil arrested for allegedly stabbing Free State teacher to death at her home. The physical science teacher learned that some visitors take more than your tupperware when they leave, especially the uninvited ones. Idle boys are heat-seeking missiles, the infrared scope in their bloodshot eyes can detect teachers’ hot bodies through walls. 2. Teacher in court over the rape of two matric pupils and the impregnation of both. This is when a fountain of knowledge flows polluted water, and cracks are exposed on a paragon of the noble teaching profession. Professing his intentions to impart wisdom unto their young minds, only to take advantage of their young bodies. He allegedly lured the girls to the strong room, locked it from the inside, overpowered, sexualy violated and threatened them if they told anyone from the outside. Pupils and teachers at schools are always receiving counselling, not exceptional results. School yards are mindfields, be careful which classroom you step in. The stumbling education system is a war zone and matriculants are the front line, but we are not the most advanced tactical combat unit. An average of 35% as our pass rate is how an elephant's strength was stunned with a short rope. When these largest land mammals on earth are very young and much smaller, trainers [teachers] use a short rope to tie them, and at that age it is enough to hold them. When they grow up, they are conditioned to believe they cannot break away. That the rope can still hold them, so they never try to break free. We are elephants, we have forgotten that we excel in long-term memory. An average of 35% as a pass rate is how a flea’s vertical leap was stunned in a glass jar. A scientist [teacher] placed a few fleas in a glass jar and they easily leaped out. He put them back into the jar and sealed it with a lid [the stumbling education system]. We began jumping and hitting the lid. But we have fallen back down into the jar so many times that after a while we became conditioned to the presence of the lid. And we began jumping slightly below it to avoid getting hit. The lid is our environment, it says matric is our greatest achievement. It is the department saying we only need to pass at least three subjects at 40%, then the lowest possible pass mark for the other four subjects is 30%. We are conditioned by our environment and the system. Damned if we loosen the rope on our ankles, break through the lid of our glass jar, and damned if we don't. It is difficult to do better in Matric when we are conditioned to keep vibrating at lower frequencies. Godspeed, matric 2022. The Saturday Star