Johannesburg – January is a giant leap for parents and school starters, and educational experts are calling for early involvement. This is as scores of youngsters make the giant leap from preschool to a formal education this month. Kaylee Randall, a Grade 1 teacher at St Martin’s Preparatory School, knows all about this and says that the first year of formal education is a big moment for parents and children, and being well prepared beforehand can pay significant dividends. The teacher at the preparatory school in the south of Johannesburg recommends that parents start conversations with their children about school as soon as possible. “It’s all in the preparation and parents need to get their minds around the idea of ‘big school’ before stepping up to the task of preparing youngsters.” Randall adds that it’s all about building positive expectations. “Have positive conversations about their new teacher, about learning new things. It’s really important to get a child excited about the first day, and their first experience of what a formal learning environment will be like.” The Grade 1 teacher also believes that encouragement plays a significant role as children should look forward to their first day at school and veer away from separation anxiety, from both child and parents’ perspectives. “It is a giant leap in letting go for parents, and a huge step for children toward independence,” she says. “A sense of independence is just as important as positive affirmations before the big day.”  Randall also suggests that teaching pre-Grade 1 children to dress themselves, tying their own shoelaces and doing up buttons and zipping up things can go a long way to creating the level of independent confidence that a child will need as they move into a new learning environment. “Also responsibilities like packing their own school bags, getting themselves ready before school and creating their own routine.”  Randall says that these small influences are equally as relevant for children entering Grade Naught. Meanwhile, homework will also be a new addition to a young learner’s life. Randall says it doesn’t have to be a burden, but rather an opportunity for parents to be engaged with their children. “By making learning fun at school and at home, especially at such a young age, it engenders a love and thirst for education that will stand children in good stead later in life. Reading, spelling and numbers can be fun, and it’s such a beautiful part of a child’s journey. “Every learning is a milestone, and every milestone should be celebrated. Especially from Grade 1,” she says. The Saturday Star