Johannesburg - This new year, make a life-saving resolution to donate blood regularly to those in need. The Western Cape Blood Service (WCBS) explained that by committing to four donations during the year, you could save up to 12 lives. “Every unit of whole blood is separated into three lifesaving parts; red cells, platelets and plasma,” WCBS spokesperson Marike Gevers said. For those who are unsure about their blood type, Gevers said that the WCBS can assist. “Don’t worry, every unit of blood gets tested for blood type, and you will be able to find yours on our app. Therefore, if giving back features top on your New Year’s resolution list, then donating blood is a good start,” she said. Gevers thanked all those who donated blood last year, particularly during the festive season. “We managed to collect 13 362 blood donations over this time and this resulted in potentially saving over 40 000 lives and this year our goal is to reach 160 000 blood donations, and in order to do this, we need your support,” she said. Gevers added that blood donation only takes 30 minutes every 56 days and requires and individual to be between the ages of 16 and 75, weigh 50kg or more, be in good general health and lead a safe sexual lifestyle. “It does not cause you any bodily harm - only 475 ml of blood is taken, and this is replaced within 24 hours,” Gevers said. She also advised donors to eat a substantial meal within the three to four hours before visiting a clinic and to increase their fluid intake before, during and after donation. Donors are advised not to over exert themselves after donating. Gevers said that this year, the WCBS are also aiming to increase their collections among young donors. “By encouraging the youth to donate blood, we cultivate a culture of lifesavers from a young age,” she said. In order to motivate high school pupils, the WCBS launched their Super 9 Club. “This campaign aims to encourage youth donors to make nine donations before their 19th birthday. We also encourage our youth donors that finished school last year to find an alternative blood donation clinic and continue to donate blood,” Gevers said. For more information, call WCBS on 021 507 6300, email info@wcbs.org.za or visit www.wcbs.org.za. The Saturday Star