Johannesburg – This January has seen Burger King and Pepsi collaborate with legendary local artist African Ginger for the revolutionary ‘X Marks the Drop’ campaign. This initiative involves South Africans participating in a nationwide search for virtual tokens, with an opportunity to win an original African Ginger piece of art and NFT (non-fungible token) worth $25 000 (about R428 000). The  ‘X Marks the Drop’ campaign will also see 1 of 10 000 limited editions African Ginger NFTs with an estimated total value of $260 000, (more than  R4.4 million) along with 20 000 free Whoppers from the fast food giant up for grabs. There are also offers like discount codes or free Pepsi with meals purchased can be won each day. African Ginger, the Johannesburg born artist and illustrator, whose real name is Seth Pimentel, is acclaimed known for his unique illustrative style. His artwork includes depth and meaning, and he often pushes boundaries by merging traditional and digital work into a hybrid of experimentation. Ezelna Jones, Head of Marketing for Burger King SA explained that his works for ‘X Marks the Drop’ are consistent with his style whilst still incorporating Burger King and Pepsi brand colour. “Gen Z grew up online playing games so combining the world of a digital token hunt and NFTs is a natural transition, especially for those seeking to own an original digital picture from African Ginger,” she said. “Like fashion and traditional art, Gen Z members express their personalities through the digital art they collect, including NFTs that represent their passions. ‘X Marks the Drop’ with Pepsi ticks all the boxes as we offer them the opportunity to be incentivised for doing something they would normally be doing while gamifying their experience with our brands.” Meanwhile, Martin Charles of PepsiCo SA. said that he is thrilled with this initiative. “I am incredibly proud of the successful partnership we have built over the past nine years with Burger King and PepsiCo.  “This collaboration of two great brands is one more step to show South Africa how innovative we can be in this channel.  “We wish all our loyal customers and consumers all the best in their virtual hunt for tokens,” Charles said. He explained that the virtual hunt is a collaborative piece created by Because Creative Experiences and their technology partners Inner Reality supported with media strategy and execution by Initiative Media. ●      To play, go to www.bkxpepsi.co.za on your mobile device or scan the QR code on one of the posters in store. ●      Register your details and sign in. ●      Identify your closest BK drop or drop a token right in front of you. ●      Open the AR mode to view the token and collect. ●      Click the ‘X’ token in your Whopper Wallet to see what you’ve won ●      Save the code and redeem it at a BK store. For more information, head to the Burger King site. X Marks the Drop will run until January 31, 2023. The Saturday Star