Johannesburg - This week we feature professional skateboarder and multiple Guinness record holder Jean-marc Johannes. The Athlone born pro skater has won gold, silver and bronze medals in international competitions, and has set several Guinness World Records for various skateboard stunts. Stunts include the most Nollie heel flips in one minute (broken twice), most Fakie heel flips in one minute, most Nollie's in one minute, and several others . He’s grown from an asthmatic kid in the Cape Flats to a world champion who’s competed in the US, Indonesia, China and Europe. The meal that most reminds you of your childhood is....? Gatsbys and penny polony. You are able to spend a day and learn from any skater in the world. Who would you choose to spend the day with? Daewon Song, I grew up watching all his videos and it's such an inspiration to me and would be so motivating to have a session with. The three most popular items in your fridge at any given time are..? My Oat Milk, Roxy's almond milk and mayonnaise. Tell us about the worst date you've ever had...? I can’t think of a bad night out myself and Roxy ever had, but having dinner in a noisy place is something we’d always both say no to. Your favourite restaurant in South Africa is… ? And what do you order? I have so many favourites to name, but as a big fan of Pasta, Primi is my favourite. I would usually or the Recco with Chicken, it's kind of like a chicken curry pasta. Your definition of success is...? Happiness and gratitude in every day we are given. What one thing on social media has caught your attention in the last week? Ive been enjoying the new skateboarding content on The Berrics. The level of skateboarding is at its highest. The biggest misconception people have of you is....? That I’m too “clean cut”, but I just want to live a good lifestyle and stay healthy. Tell us about the worst injury you’ve ever picked up while skating? A head injury, which initially was a concussion but the weeks that followed with post concussion symptoms was something I’ve never experienced in my life. The reason I call it the worst was because it’s not like a sprain or anything, you can’t really measure the healing process yourself. The song that best describes your life right now is...? “God Did” by DJ Khaled. The Saturday Star