Johannesburg - There’s no greater feeling than knowing all your friends at your school passed their matric exams. This was the sentiment expressed by the top two students at Maryvale College on learning their school had achieved a 100% pass rate in the 2022 National Senior Certificate exams.  Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced an 80.1% matric pass rate for the class of 2022. This is the second-highest since 2019. The pass rate was 76.4% in 2021.  The Free State is the leading province, for the third year in a row, with a pass rate of 88.5%. Gauteng came in second with 84.4%. KwaZulu-Natal is in third place, and is also the most-improved province, with a pass-rate increase of 6.2% on 2021. Independent schools achieved a matric pass rate of 98.42%. Maryvale College’s top student, Bonolo Sekhu (18), said she was still in shock but very happy about her results. She bagged distinctions in mathematics, accounting, life sciences, English, isiZulu first additional language, and life orientation. “I expected about four distinctions, but this is just incredible. Even my parents are still in shock. This would not have been possible without the amazing teachers we had. Their encouragement made all the difference. I really hope my parents buy me a car,” she giggled. President Cyril Ramaphosa said the Class of 2022 deserved the nation’s respect, as they had to get through the Covid-19 pandemic, and had done so with flying colours. “It was difficult at times to prepare, but I reminded myself of my goals. I didn’t let anything get me down. Consistency for me was key,” she added. Sekhu is hoping to study accounting at either UCT or Wits. Expecting three distinctions and bagging six was more than a dream come true for Imo Ume, who said his results should get him a car. He achieved distinctions in mathematics, accounting, life sciences, English, physical science, and life orientation. “I really thought I would get maybe two or three distinctions. We are all still in disbelief. We were a very close group of learners, and I expected all of us to pass. And we did. We really worked well together and helped each other, and this is just the cherry on top for our school,” he said. Ume said that, despite the many challenges, Covid-19 had helped him “collect” himself. “We made many sacrifices. I couldn't see my boys like I wanted to, but it was all worth it in the end,” he said. Ume is planning to study electrical engineering at UCT or Wits, and hopes to become a software developer. Acting principal Malcolm Ally said the learners and the school as a whole had risen above the challenges. “I am definitely a proud principal today. My matric learners achieved a 100% pass rate in 2022. The result is a direct reflection of Maryvale College and its dedicated staff. Despite all the challenges, like load shedding and other internal challenges in 2022, our school has shown its resilience.  “I would like to thank my staff for their undying dedication to the teaching profession and encourage them to continue with their excellent work,” he said. The Saturday Star