By Sharon Gordon Johannesburg - January 13 is Shower Together day, and I can think of several reasons to do so. I know that saving water is the most important one but it’s not. Showering together can be the sexiest and most relaxing part of the day. All you really need is your bodies, the correct temperature and a gorgeous smelling shower gel. It’s incredibly sexy to have your hair washed by someone else. Most sexy encounters require a bit of planning. If you really want to rev it up add a bit of sex toy vroom to your play. There is only one criterion – the toy must be waterproof. The truth is that any sex toy can be waterproof if you seal it in a plastic bag. It’s a bit clumsy so rather choose one that is 100% waterproof. Waterproof toys come in a variety of sizes, colours, uses and price points. We are talking about showering together so best talk about it with your partner. What do you want to play with and how? Whether you’re looking for a multi-function vibrator, a clitoral stimulator, cock ring, anal beads, a finger vibe or a dildo you can find one that's waterproof. A waterproof sex toy is a toy that can be submerged in water during use, there are no open areas for charging, batteries etc. Not all sex toys are waterproof; some are only water-resistant (with uncovered charging holes), which means the toy can get wet, but it should not be submerged or in constant contact with water. Check whether your sex toy is waterproof or water-resistant before you use it in the shower, pool, bath or jacuzzi. The coolest thing about waterproof toys (besides sexy water play) is that they are easy to clean with anti-bacterial soap and water. If the toy is not waterproof you have to be a bit more careful, water damage is just unnecessary. Deciding what you want the toy to do can be the most difficult part of your decision. Is your shower buddy going to be for solo or couple play? Are you wanting external or internal stimulation? Start with a good lubricant. Water based lubricants aren’t ideal because they dissolve in water so stick with a silicone based (try any one of the Pjur range) or oil based lubricant – coconut oil works like a charm. I know it’s tempting to get frisky in water but make sure it’s clean. Don’t play in water that may have bacteria in it. Your body’s PH is a delicate balance. Choosing a toy can be confusing if you don’t know what you want. We always recommend starting small and working your way up. We mean in size and price. If you do know what you want and what you like – then go out and get it. Check the toy’s waterproof status. It’s always indicated on the package. Look out for the waterdrop symbol. If you choose waterproof toy that can be operated with a remote control, make sure the remote is waterproof as well. App enabled toys can be used in the shower – your phone has to be outside! A dildo is probably the easiest shower toy available add a bit of lube and you’re ready to go with no fear of water damage. Check out this gorgeous glass version from FSOG There are so many waterproof toy versions to choose from. We’ve chosen our favourites for you to try. Rocks-Off Bamboo Discreet and elegant with a touch of absolute class, the 10-speed BAMBOO will ignite and fulfil the senses of all true pleasure seekers. BAMBOO's unique precision design will deliver intense vibrations exactly where you need and want it, whilst it's silky-smooth flat surfaces provide super-sensual contact to maximise your ultimate satisfaction. Rocks-Off Empower Empower is the ultimate couple stimulator that has been perfectly designed to take you and your partner to the next level. The powerful motor ensures deep vibrations are felt so you can both lose yourself and give in to every moment, touch, and erotic position. Je Joue Mimi Mimi Soft feels great on the clitoris, and any other area that tickles your fancy - and his - from your nipples to his perineum and anywhere in-between. Smooth and soft, Mimi Soft glides across the skin, making it perfect for a body-massage with a difference. Rocks-Off Sugarboo Sugar Beautifully crafted with sensory touch finishes and 10 vibration sensations. This traditional looking vibrator will enhance your precious me time and invite shared sensual discovery moments especially in the shower. Lelo Ora 3 Applied externally to your most intimate erogenous zones, ORA 3 delivers its luxurious swirling vibrations exactly where you want them. Fully USB rechargeable, waterproof and with 12 stimulation modes, ORA 3 is the next generation of award-winning oral pleasure. Rocks-Off Oriel Rechargeable Wand The Ultimate Couples Play Wand - Luxuriously sleek and designed for pure pleasure, Oriel is the perfect addition for couples who enjoy intense, sensual and full-on vibrational contact. Discrete in appearance but powerful in performance, the sensory velvet touch silicone, easy controls and flexible head ensures that you will receive deep vibrations exactly where and when you want them. r Dame Pom Flexible Vibrator An inviting vibe to find your bliss. Pom snuggles close, bends, and moves with you, putting pleasure in the palm of your hand. We Vibe Melt Melt is a Pleasure Air stimulator designed for couples who want to turn up the heat and reach new heights of pleasure, together. Melt surrounds the clitoris with gentle pulsing waves of air that lead to epic orgasms. It is slim, curved design fits perfectly between you in any position. You or your partner can control the fun with the free We-Connect app from anywhere. Let the air take you there. Rocks-Off Petite Sensations Pearls This slim set of vibrating anal beads is ideal for those who are new to anal play or those experienced users that crave that world-changing sensation over and over. The powerful 7 functions surge through the t-shaped base to the tip of the last pearl, pulsing pleasure at your most sensitive areas and throughout your body. Womanizer Classic 2 Classic 2 has added two extra intensity levels, making it 10 in total. Compared to the predecessor, Classic 2 is a bit softer on the lower end and just as strong on the high end, allowing for smoother transitions on the way. It is made from body-safe silicone and is phthalate, BPA and latex free. Le Wand Petite Rechargeable Le Wand Petite Rechargeable Vibrating Massager delivers intense and sensual pleasure. This luxurious wand has 10 distinctive. rumbly vibration speeds and 6 vibration patterns. The sleek design provides focused vibration in the head of the wand. Lelo Lily 2 100% Waterproof And USB-Rechargeable Offers 4 hours of satisfying pleasure from a single 2-hour charge, and fully submersible for the bath or shower. Perfectly formed to fit in your palm, LILY 2's silky surface can be used externally to stimulate all of your erogenous zones. Fun Factory Stronic G Finally, a toy that gives the G-spot the rhythmic massage it craves, hands-free. With all the thrusting, pulsing action that’s made the Fun Factory Stronic line a massive hit in a sleeker, slimmer design - the Stronic G lets allows for explosive orgasm without lifting a finger. The Saturday Star