Cape Town - When 18-year-old Kenneth Janson from Paarl Boys’ High School received a phone call informing him he was among South Africa’s top matric achievers for 2022, he froze, staring at his collated pile of past papers and prep notes in disbelief that his hard work had paid off. Janson and Simone Anna-Mart Louw from Bloemhof Girls High School attended a breakfast with Basic Education Angie Motshekga on Thursday morning and later the national announcement of NSC results in Johannesburg. They were among 30 pupils from schools across the country who were celebrated as 2022 matric top achievers. They also received a token of appreciation from MTN. “To be honest, getting the phone call, and standing on that podium was one of my desires and when it did not come through on Sunday I thought that was it, I didn’t make the cut. My father advised me to be patient and wait for the next coming days. “On Monday while lying on the bed I received a phone call inviting me to Joburg. Usually when I receive good news I’m relatively level headed. However, weirdly, I couldn’t speak and froze. “The person on the other side was thankfully very understanding and considerate. He gave me time to calm down because I was overwhelmed. “I was emotional thinking of all the hard work and that I was actually going to get recognition. I know a lot of very smart people so it’s not that I was confident that the invitation would definitely come but knowing how consistent and hard working I was since the beginning of the year” said Janson. The overall top National Senior Certificate (NSC) pupil for 2021 was Ulrich le Roux, also from Paarl Boys’ High School. Janson said when Le Roux clinched the top position, it motivated him even more. “To know that someone who has gone through some of the things you went through, being taught by the same teachers, and you could be recognised nationally, inspired me.  I started imagining myself also on that podium.” Janson said while he made it his goal to work hard throughout 2022 he also ensured it was the best overall year in his academic career attending sporting events and going out with friends. He hopes to study international business at Stellenbosch University. A proud father Morne Janson described his son as a diligent and focused person who sets goals for himself. “It has been a long journey and this moment is not just about this one year but the accumulation of 12 years of hard work. “This is the pinnacle of his school achievements. “We are grateful for the invitation (to Johannesburg) because we know there were many pupils who wrote matric, so to be invited here is an amazing experience and we are thankful to be in the same presence with other top pupils. “Children put pressure on themselves during exams so it’s important to support them and let them know constantly you are there for them,” he said. Louw ,18, said she received the invite to Johannesburg while at the gym. “When I got home it was such a celebratory mood we were hugging each other,” she said. “The most important thing that helped me cope and got me here is meditation and prayer. For me this year was exciting and less stressful compared to the past two years, especially Grade 11. “ It was hard and I also had to start applying for university. “In matric I found a strategy that worked for me which was listening a lot in class, going back home, practising and studying. “Then Saturday was my rest day, I would recharge by only doing things I enjoy. “So it’s important when you are in matric to set your goals, pursue them and find strategies that actually work for you. “Also the support from teachers and your loved ones is important” Louw plans to study electronic engineering at SU. Cape Times The Cape Times’ Big Friday Read is a series of feature articles focusing on the forgotten issues that often disappear in the blur of fast news cycles, and where we also feature the everyday heroes who go out of their way to change the lives of others in their communities.  To nominate a hero or raise a forgotten issue you would like  us to feature in our Big Friday Read, email ctnews@inl.co.za