Johannesburg - This week we feature South African model, fashion designer, and entrepreneur Tiffany Francis. Francis is a professional model signed to ICE Models and has worked with ELLE Magazine, Maybelline, DKNY, Destiny Magazine, and several others. In 2021, the model also made it into the top ten of the Miss South Africa contest. As an entrepreneur, Francis is the owner of youth and model development academy Tiffany K Models, which was launched in 2018. She is also the founder of the Build Your Door project, which aims to amplify entrepreneurship in South Africa Francis has also studied fashion design and has worked for South African Fashion Week, doing wardrobe/styling for stars such as Pearl Thusi, Lira and many more. The one meal that most reminds you of your childhood is...? That's a tough one but I'd have to say my favourite dish - oxtail potjie Your favourite item of clothing in your closet currently is...? Hmm, probably my converse platforms or leather jacket Tell us about the worst date you've ever been on ? Fortunately, I don't have a worst date story. You are able to do a photoshoot in any location around the world. Where do you choose to shoot ? Easily the Amalfi Coast, Italy What is your definition of beauty ? I've always believed that how you carry yourself and how you treat people reflect your true beauty. What one thing has caught your attention on social media in the last month ? Probably the results of the World Cup/football news - I'm a huge sports fan! A wild night of partying or a night of Netflix and chill ? I love a good movie night, so definitely Netflix. Your favourite restaurant in SA is..? And what do you order? I don't know if it's possible to choose haha but I'll try... I enjoy Calistos and Doppio Zero - I order Prawns or Pizza! You are going to be stuck on an island for a year, but can have one celebrity with you, one book, and a song with you. What are your choices? I'd love to be stuck with Rihanna, who wouldn't want to pick her boss babe, billionaire brain? The book I'd choose is The 5AM Club as I'm currently reading it and I'd probably choose any song by Brandy or Aaliyah, my old school queens. You are able to choose out an outfit for any celebrity in the world. Who do you choose to dress and why ? I'd pick Zendaya . Who wouldn't want to style her. She can rock a suit and an evening dress. So versatile! The Saturday Star