Johannesburg - This week we feature South African actress and up-and-coming singer Natasha van der Merwe. She is best known for her role in popular South African soapie “Suidooster”, where she plays the role of Suzie. Natasha is also a talented singer, dancer and actress who is marking her entry into the music industry with the release of her upcoming debut single, “Hou My Vas”. The single was released this week, in tandem with an official music video, just in time for Valentine’s Day. Natasha is also a talented theatre actress and has had the privilege of performing to audiences all over the world . Her theatre credits are made up of well-known musicals including roles in, “Mamma Mia”, “Saturday Night Fever”, “Rock of Ages” and “Doringrosie”, just to mention a few. Most recently she was cast as Annie in the international touring production of the Broadway musical “Chicago”. The greatest Afrikaans singer SA has ever produced is... Yoh, this is tough. There are so many outstanding artists, but the first to come to mind are Tarryn Lamb and Theuns Jordaan. You are able to collaborate with any SA artist on a song. Who do you choose to collaborate with and why? Lee Cole. I think he is Incredibly talented and has such a diverse, unique and incredible set of pipes on him. By far one of our most talented musicians. The meal that most reminds you of your childhood is... Spag Bowl.  I learnt how to make a mean mince from my dad. Vetkoek is another one that reminds me of my childhood. Tell us about the worst date you’ve ever been on... Yoh, this is one for the books. I’m still reeling from shock and it’s been 10 years, haha. I can’t divulge too much information, but let’s just say he started off informing me he is going to be late because he is straightening his hair. He then proceeded to tell me to wait for him outside my house (while it’s raining) so that I can just jump into the car. Needless to say, he arrives and flings the car door open, without getting out and even introducing himself. We then got to the movies, where I was then expected to pay for our popcorn and drinks. (Please note, I don’t mind, but there is a way and manner in which a situation can be approached. Ordering someone to pay for something on a first date that they have invited you on isn’t particularly cool.) I could go on and on about the rest of the evening, but let’s just say I’ll leave the rest to your imagination, or if I ever meet you one day I’ll finish the story. You are only able to shop at one clothing store for the rest of your life. Which store do choose to shop at? Eish, does Shein count? I think I could be happy with that. Keeping it to an actual store in SA, I’d have to say H&M – they will have the most variety and cover pretty much everything from underwear to evening wear! What is the biggest misconception people have of you? When I think about my answer, my immediate reaction is that I don’t feel like people have a misconception of me. I’m pretty much a ‘what you see is what you get’ kinda girl ... But if it comes to me being an actress/performer, I would say that it often looks easy from the outside and glamorous and fun, but it’s actually a lot of humble hard work filled with humility and vulnerability. The song that most adequately describes your life right now is... Ooohh, I’m a huge Fan of P!nk, and her new song “Trustfall”. What is your definition of love? Respect, kindness and honesty. To treat others the way you’d like to be treated. Your go-to takeout spot in SA is...? Ooh, this is tough. I don’t really eat takeout (yes, I know), but I do like a spoil every now and again. If I have to choose something I’d actually pick a lekker Mugg & Bean chicken mayo sandwich on gluten-free bread… or Steers chips with Thousand Island sauce. Lots of it! You are stuck in an elevator with President Cyril Ramaphosa. What’s the first thing you ask him? Can you genuinely go to bed at night with a clear conscience? There are too many questions. The Saturday Star