Johannesburg - It might be Valentine’s Day next week, but this won’t stop load shedding from dampening the festivities. Planet Fitness is giving some love to power-starved fitness enthusiasts on the most romantic day of the year. The gym company has invested heavily in keeping the lights on during load shedding and is currently the only large fitness group that has generators in all of its 48 gyms across the country. “More people are wanting hot showers because geysers are running cold at home, and whether it’s stage 2 or stage 6, the lights need to stay on,” Planet Fitness managing director Mannee de Wet explained. “Due to the huge running expenses, none of our main competitors have generators in every club, where we do.” De Wet added that it is a direct cost, and there have been months when load shedding has hit stages 4 to 6, forcing them to spend more than R1 million on diesel and maintenance just to provide a service to their members. “With South Africa’s unique set of circumstances, you just need to roll with the punches and, fortunately, Planet Fitness started addressing the issue of load shedding long before Covid-19,” De Wet said. “You can’t sit, you work around the pain points because most of these challenges are here to stay.” De Wet said that people have paid to train, and want to train, regardless. Here is Planet Fitness’s fun guide to surviving Valentine’s Day 2023 at gym during load shedding. Tip 1: Hot shower After a day of work, sweat and stress, you’ll need a shower ahead of seeing your special person. “Load shedding may leave you wanting, so get clubbing,” De Wet said. Tip 2: Hairdryer You may have the most styling look, but bae – you ain’t nothing without your hair. Take a turn through a gym turnstile, they’re switched on in every way. Tip 3: Coffee VDAY23 falls on a Tuesday and you may need to perk up and stay awake just a little longer this weekday evening. “No kettle, no power, no perk, so take a sho’t left when you spot the gym signs because they have cafés, and the coffee is steaming,” De Wet said. Tip 4: Wi-fi Communication is essential on Valentine’s Day as you’ll need to confirm your booking, call your sweetheart, de-stress with a friend or, if you’ve lost the love – cancel. “Hold the power with wi-fi. In this case: ‘The Planet” will provide.” Tip 5: Suga needs a honey “And hey, Janu-worry can still leave a dent in February. What about a workout for two?” De Wet said. The Saturday Star