Johannesburg - The national state of disaster calls upon us to reflect on the fragility of our existence and the power of nature. On the power of nature; it’s beauty, a distant memory. On our existence; there is a foul smell in the air when a solution to our energy crisis rings a reminder that reeks of the corruption and mismanagement rampant in the country's government. This smell prompts us to consider the decaying role of humanity, once pure and full of grace. Now marred as greed, hatred, and violence take their place. The declaration of a national state of disaster challenges our beliefs about the invincibility of human progress and civilization. And in our self-obsession, we've lost our way. We've ravaged the earth, we've plundered its wealth. As far as we remember, the previous national state of disaster was engulfed in flames of corruption and self-serving actions from politicians. The country is plagued by deceit and greed, with those in positions of power using their influence to line their pockets at the expense of the people. Power, a prize prized by many. Influence, a tool wielded by few. Together, they shape our destiny as the rich reap rewards, the poor endure pain, the middle class melting away as the haves get more and the have-nots decay - If you remember from the smell, that is the role of humanity. Corruption, a cancerous affliction that has taken root and spread, infecting every aspect of society and leaving a trail of destruction in its wake. It is a well-known fact that politicians have taken advantage of the previous state of disaster.  With their paltry principles and poisonous motives, they plundered the pandemic for their own personal gain. We are just hoping, with this new state of disaster, they won't do it again. The energy crisis, like a persistent plague, has brought with it a plethora of problems; a politicians personal playground. The people, like the earth, are being ravaged, left eating away at themselves and leaving behind nothing but barren land. Further eroding the trust between the government and the governed, who are trapped in a cycle of poverty and despair, while the corrupt few flourish. The air is thick with the stench of corruption and mismanagement, a putrid odour that clings to the tongue and threatens to suffocate the senses. It is a reminder of the rot that has seeped into the heart of our nation, a cancer that spreads with every passing day. The solution to our energy crisis should bring a breath of fresh air, a beacon of hope in the darkness, but instead it rings a reminder of all that is wrong with our leaders and the systems they have put in place. The smell is a warning, a signal of the decay that threatens to consume us all unless we rise up and demand change. It is a call to action, a cry for justice in the face of greed and corruption. The Saturday Star