Johannesburg – South Africa is the most dangerous country in Africa, with five of its cities having the highest crime rates on the continent, a new study has found. The research, conducted by security experts 0861 Clearview, a private, local fencing company, has discovered that Pretoria ranked the highest in the continent with a crime index score of 82, followed by Joburg, Durban, Cape Town, and Bloemfontein. 0861 Clearview used Statista to find the crime rate of the 10 most populated cities in Africa. Using Numbeo, the world's largest cost of living database, 0861 Clearview also found the most common crimes in each of these cities, including police corruption, assault/armed robbery, and vandalism/theft. Meanwhile, the research found that corruption and bribery is the most common crime in South Africa, the city with the most assault and armed robbery crimes is Pretoria and that Durban was the city with the most vandalism and theft crimes. The city with the most drug use is Cape Town and the study found that on average, assault and bribery is the most common violent crime in South Africa Security experts 0861 Clearview has provided the following expert tips and comments for improving your home’s safety: - Secure your doors and windows Locking our doors and windows is the easiest way to protect our homes, but there are always ways to improve this security, especially when intruders are often looking for new ways to enter homes. By installing sensors on doors and windows, you can keep track of when a room has been entered, and smart locks can be scheduled to lock at certain times so you don’t forget. Upgrade your exterior door locks by installing deadbolts that make it harder to break in. - Install security fencing Clearview security fencing is an optimal solution for protecting public and private property, with most security fencing designed to have anti-climb, anti-cutting, and wire mesh features to ward off intruders. Fencing is a highly customisable security tool; you can decide the fence’s height, whether to include security cameras or use electrical fencing for optimum safety. You can also find fencing solutions that are discreet and maintain the attractive appearance of your home. - Buy a home security system One of the most effective ways to prevent intruders and break-ins is by buying a home security system, which will alert the homeowner to movement in or around the house. Depending on what company you use for the security system, it could also alert law enforcement on your behalf. There are plenty of affordable security cameras on the market, which combined with motion sensors attached to doors and windows, could maximise your home’s security. - Buy outdoor lighting Burglaries are often crimes based on opportunity; burglars wait for a home to either be free of occupants or wait for them to fall asleep to break in. However, outdoor lights may scare off unwanted visitors. Motion sensor lights will illuminate the outside of your home when triggered, catching the intruder off guard and hopefully forcing them to flee. Combined with security cameras, outdoor lighting could help identify the intruder. - Consider buying a safe If an intruder does happen to make it into your home, you will want to make sure that they cause as little damage as possible. Consider buying a safe or lockbox to keep cash, jewellery and other valuable and important items safe away from thieves. If you have a hide-a-key, place it somewhere further away from the entrance in a hidden, combination lockbox if necessary. Any small deterrent can keep your home safe from intruders. “Implementing these simple but practical tips can help discourage home invasions, whether it is from thieves or vandalists, keeping your home, family, and belongings safe,” the researchers said. “Each improvement in your security will ensure your house and loved ones are that much more protected.” The Saturday Star